[roaring]
Something just severed
my connection with Popp.
All my friends...
What's happening up there?
Where... Where am I?
Hyunckel: Nowhere good.
You can say that again.
We definitely didn't
wake up in paradise.
Just the opposite.
What is this place?
As far as I can tell...
we must be in the heart
of Vearn Palace itself.
We fell from the very
top of the tower...
And now we're trapped again.
How do we escape?
[roaring]
I've got an idea...
Refractor Fist!
[roaring]
It's not going to work.
The walls of the heart
must be made from
the same stuff that
the Dark Force Reactor was.
It can absorb any
Magic Power we throw at it,
and it can probably
regenerate, too.
But no living thing can absorb
an Overheal spell -
it's impossible.
Either way, seeing as
we've all returned to normal,
I believe it's a
fair assumption that
either Dai has struck a critical
blow against the Dark King...
or he's somehow severed
the flow of his Magic Power.
Avan: With a battle
as fierce as this,
it's only a matter of time
before the palace shatters...
And Vearn won't
have the Magic Power
to hold it together anymore.
When it happens, we'll
plummet to the surface
along with this chamber
and be killed on impact.
Popp: You've gotta
be kidding me...
We've just gone from
one trap to another?
Popp: No way. We're
not going out like that...
Not if I can help it.
How about this?
Medroa!
C'mon... That didn't
even leave a mark?
Seriously?
This thing absorbs magic - even
a spell as tough as Medroa.
All you're going to
do is tire yourself out
if you keep using it.
Whoa, take it easy...
U-uh... I'll be okay.
Just woozy from
casting that spell.
But don't worry,
my brain's still intact...
Popp: Look: Nothing's
invulnerable, not even this...
There must be a way
to break out of here!
Dai's up there right now...
A fate worse than ours.
He's not giving up.
He's fighting harder than
ever, risking everything...
Everything, and for what?
For all of his friends
to get stuck down here -
blown to kingdom come
in some stupid, slimy trap?
He's right, damnit!
We've all tried
our Aura attacks,
and if they won't work...
Nothing will.
Look again, Big Guy.
Popp: You see? I told
you it's not invincible.
Magic Power might
have no effect,
but Aura did some damage.
There's a way -
we just need more!
All we need to do is
hit the wall with an attack
that'll make a hole big
enough for us to get through.
Then we can escape with a Zoom
spell before it heals itself.
Even if you are right,
the amount of power
it would require...
None of us have
that energy left.
The only thing that was
strong enough to pierce
the heart was Dai's Doruora.
Who here can match that?
Crocodine: If that's the case,
then simple destructive
power can't breach this wall.
I'll bet the Dragon Knight's
Doruora was able to do so
because of its
overwhelming Aura energy...
Our combined strength
isn't enough.
Popp [thought]: Have we really
crossed off all our options?
There is something, I know it.
Something we're forgetting.
It might not be as
great as Doruora, but...
maybe it doesn't need to be.
As long as it still
fires Aura at full power
it should do the trick, right?
That's it... I've got it!
We hit it with a Grand Cross.
You mean Hyunckel's thing?
Yes... Yes, I see!
That could work.
Don't be ridiculous.
In Hyunckel's condition,
he can barely even stand.
If he tries, it could...
Relax! I don't
want him to do it.
Hyunckel didn't invent that
skill. Somebody taught him.
I want them to do it.
Bingo.
The one who originally
wielded the Grand Cross
is none other than
Master Avan himself.
You remember how
it's done. Master?
Popp: Come on,
I know you do! Let's go.
[laughing]
Brilliant!
I remember indeed, Popp.
Nicely done. Quick thinking.
You put that together even
faster than I expected.
It's been quite a while since
the last time I used this,
but very well.
I can take things from here.
One quick go. Wish me luck!
Popp: All right!
Take it away, Master Avan!
Avan... Avan... Avan!
Hyunckel: Cut it out.
You do not want him to use it.
Not unless you want to
lose him all over again.
Popp: Uh...
Avan taught the attack,
not the technique.
A traditional Grand Cross
is only performed
as a last resort
when a warrior is unable
to use their sword.
You only use it if
you have no other option.
That's a skill he knows.
The rest is mine.
Hyunckel: And the only person
who knows how to
do it my way is me.
Or more accurately...
I'm the only one who knows how
to do it like that and survive.
Avan: Yes, that's true.
Avan: Grand Cross
is so volatile,
it can easily become
a self-destruct attack.
To unleash such a fearsome
thing at full power
and walk away unscathed...
There's certainly no
denying it, Hyunckel.
You've cultivated
a miraculous skill
in the years you've
wandered the battlefield.
I might go as far as to liken
it to the might of the gods.
It's very possible that
I won't be as successful...
but if there's ever been a
time to try for the impossible,
I'd say this is it.
M-Master, wait!
Both: You can't.
Hyunckel: That's not a
chance you need to take.
Allow me - and
just stand aside.
Maam: It doesn't matter
who takes the chance.
There has to be another way.
But there isn't.
If it means saving
the rest of us,
then somebody has to
put themselves on the line.
It's the only move we've got.
You don't know that.
There's no more time to argue.
No. End of discussion.
Hym: [snarling]
L-Little Hym, he's...
O-Oh man...
I remember that
technique of yours well.
Hym: Hard to forget
the thing somebody
almost does you in with.
Now, I'm only imitating here...
But I think it went a
little something like this!
Popp [thought]: Hym can
do a Grand Cross?
Avan [thought]:
His body can't take it!
Hyunckel: It's all right,
Hym. That's enough!
I'll do this myself.
Just leave it to me!
Hym: No can do.
If you die here,
I'll never be able to
settle our score, will I?
You'll never settle
it this way, either!
Hym, please.
Hym: If I'm being honest,
I'll tell you this...
Hym: I didn't think
much of you humans at first.
But you aren't
so bad after all.
Matter of fact, I've taken a
liking to you and your friends.
Believe me, it
surprises me too,
but there's something to
admire in everyone here.
What I like most is, you're all
willing to do the stupid thing.
You'll put yourself in harm's
way to protect your bonds.
In that sense, you're
just like my old comrades!
I-I don't... I don't want to
see any of you sad ever again,
so I promise I'll
get the job done!
No, stop!
Don't underestimate
me, Hyunckel.
I know what I'm doing...
If you're immortal...
Hym: Th-Then that makes me...
That makes me immortal as well!
[roaring]
Both: Now! Zoom!
[screaming]
[groaning]
Finally. The fall
of Vearn Palace.
Chiu: Y-You... You sure went out
in a blaze of glory, Little Hym.
We'll never forget
what you've done!
From this day forth, Number
twelve is permanently retired.
Thus ends his service
with the Beast King Commandos!
Hey, congrats. So now that
you're retired, what's next?
Travel the world?
Shut up. He didn't even make
sure that I'm actually dead.
I mean, it was a nice
speech, but at least check.
Baduck: Hey!
They're alive! Popp! Maam!
Princess Leona!
[cheering]
Bowson: Is everyone okay?!
It's Queen Flora
and the others!
That was quite
a fall, Princess.
No kidding.
Sorry I worried you.
Where's your shirt?
Long story.
[amazed laugh]
Happy to see
you made it back.
Thanks.
I mean it. I thought
I'd never see you again.
Guess I should know better.
It was a real group effort.
Thank heavens you all made
it out of there safely.
Avan: Agreed. We were cutting
it even closer than I realized.
Talk about good timing, huh?
Yes, quite so.
Flora: Huh?
Is that you, Avan?
I-I think so?
Flora? That's not, uh... not
how I expected you'd react...
Oh, that's right.
She didn't know that Master
Avan's been alive all this time.
She must've thought
she was seeing a ghost.
I'm sorry, I thought
you liked surprises.
Wait. Where's Dai?
Tell me what happened to Dai.
I guess, he's...
still up there.
He's on his own.
Popp: With what he's up against,
we weren't much use anyway.
Even if we could help,
he's in a place that
none of us can reach.
It shouldn't be like this.
I shouldn't have listened
when he told us back off...
I should've done more!
[weeping]
Hyunckel: You've done plenty,
Popp. Be proud of yourself.
Each of us gave him all that
we had, and we got him there.
It's why we've
pulled off so many miracles
beyond our abilities.
It's come at great cost,
but it's why we're still here.
It's also why Dai is able
to carry on the fight -
why he'll win.
He's proud of you.
All of us are.
Popp: Right.
Y-You're right.
Mr. Beast: It will
make a splendid legend.
"Thus, lifted by the
hope of his friends,
the Hero ascended
to the heavens..."
Now all we can do is wait
to see if he'll return.
And believe that in
the end, Dai will win.
There's no doubt about that.
Master Dai will be
victorious. He always is.
Even the Dark King
himself can't overcome
the son of the
mighty war god Baran.
You're done, Vearn!
No!
Popp [thought]: Win.
You have to do it, Dai!
Take him out and
then come back to us.
I don't care what you
look like - I mean it.
Just please, come back.
Don't let this be
how we say goodbye, pal.
Dai: The Surface World?
Where's Vearn?!
He's still alive... I feel it.
I have to find him -
he can't win!
True Vearn: [pained groaning]
I... I can't...
can't do this.
In such a compromised state...
Perhaps if I still had
both of my arms, but...
No. It would
still change nothing.
Even with both arms,
the outcome would be the same.
He's transformed
into a feral beast,
sacrificing all he has,
including his very
nature to claim victory.
I'll win, but I must
sacrifice all I have, as well.
[roaring]
[terrifying howl]
Velzar: What an
intense wave of energy.
Has Vearn finally done it?
He's unleashed the power
of the Sovereign Eye!
Is his foe
truly that powerful?!
That puny child of
the Dragon Knight?!
What is this?
Where's all this
energy coming from?
What have you done, Vearn?!
Vearn.
Well done, Dai...
Your father would
be so pleased.
You've taken ahold of a power
far beyond this realm...
One that eclipses my own.
To defeat the frenzied
beast you've become,
I must transform into
something even more ferocious.
True Vearn: Hadlar once
walked the path of no return.
For his courage he
was rewarded with a power
rivaling that
of my former body.
I shall be, too!
True Vearn: Even if it
means I cannot turn back,
that's a small price
to pay for victory.
I'd give my entire
kingdom for it!
[pained yell]
[roaring]
You hit hard.
This is what your true form
really looks like, isn't it?
This is a vessel. My true
form is here at the head.
The behemoth I'm attached
to is a final measure.
A ruthless creature I keep
locked away in my Third Eye -
my Sovereign Eye.
If there's a force to
match a Dragonoid,
it's the Sovereign Supreme.
The Sovereign Supreme?
I've seen this before!
That's it!
It looks just like...
like Sovereign Rock Castle!
True Vearn: Very good.
The castle's
designed to resemble
my most terrifying form of all!
I'm sure you
haven't forgotten...
It was bestowing the
power of my Sovereign Eye
to that pathetic little
Drumbler of mine...
that allowed him to
evolve into the beast Goroa!
I knew if need be,
I could evolve my body
in the same manner.
Which is what
stands before you!
I also knew that if I,
the source of the Magic Power
driving the transformation,
attempted it myself,
I couldn't change back.
Sovereign Rock Castle was a
plaything for conquering worlds;
a crude sketch of
my impossible dream!
But I'd gladly take
this state over defeat.
Anything is better
than failure.
Crude though it is,
the name of legendary Dark King
Vearn will go on in infamy!
That's your reason?
You're using a power
you decided to lock away
because it was too dangerous -
just for victory?
Dai: You're actually choosing
to cast aside who you were...
All just to...
save your reputation?
[evil cackle]
So be it!
There are far worse fates!
[roaring]
To rule the Trio of Worlds as
a heartless beast of terror
is but a small sacrifice!
True Vearn: All I care
about now is besting you!
To vanquish the Dragon Knight -
I'll accept any form I must.
Defeating you...
is worth any price!
It's time I rid myself
of you, Dai. Begone!
[agonized cry]
Full power... Draconic Aura!
Doruora!
[horrified howl]
Narrator: To match the Dragonoid
Dai's relentless attacks,
the Dark King has taken the
form of the Sovereign Supreme.
The supercharged rivals will
summon the last of their might,
squaring off in a
heart-stopping clash.
Armed with his father's
Demon Dragon Blade,
Dai fights to ensure that his
sacrifice won't be in vain...
The battle between the Hero
and the Dark King will
finally come to a close -
but who will be left standing?
The journey ends,
next time on
Dragon Quest:
the Adventure of Dai,
"Farewell,
This World That I Love".